From: Brian Towlson [brian.towlson-2@manchester.ac.uk]
Sent: 26 November 2008 17:00
To: Ren, X (Eric)
Subject: RE: Software for January beamtime

 

Hi Eric,

 

Thanks for the confirmation on data storage – I’ve passed this information on to Nigel so that he can discuss it further with Sarnjeet if he wants. The software will have the facility to save to both our local drive and the network drive, so this is covered.

 

I’ve now constructed the basic scan software and have just been down to Aberystwyth to test this on Classix using my laptop to send commands via a crossover cable. Everything seems to work as expected. The Labview subVIs I have used are the ones for TCP communication. When the user clicks to start a scan, the Classix PC listens for a connection on whatever port has been chosen. Once a connection is opened, it goes to a “scan” screen that behaves as we have discussed:

 

Command: STATUS (or STAT – for simplicity I am just using the first four letters to identify the basic commands)

Classix will respond with its present status, one of the following:

READY

BUSY IMAG

BUSY FILT

SAVING

ERR0 (last command not understood)

ERR1 (invalid IMAG parameter)

ERR2 (invalid FILT parameter)

ERR3 (invalid SAVE parameter)

ERR4 (IMAG cancelled by user)

ERR5 (FILT cancelled by user)

ERR6 (not yet defined)

ERR7 (not yet defined)

ERR8 (not yet defined)

ERR9 (not yet defined)

QUITTING

 

Command: IMAG

Classix will respond with the value of the last acquired image:

IMAGD 1234.56

 

Command: IMAG %d

Classix will respond OK and accumulate the given number of images. These are averaged and the result saved to file. If queried (or given another command) during accumulation, it will respond with BUSY IMAG. Once done its status will return to READY and the value of the image can be returned using the IMAG command with no parameters.

If the user cancels this accumulation (unlikely but possible if something goes wrong), status will become ERR4 – next time Classix is queried or given a command it will respond with ERR4 and then set status back to READY (this means it will not carry out the command given – i.e. if status is ERR4 and it receives a SAVE command, it will respond with ERR4 but not save. Once it has done this, status will be READY again and it will react normally).

If Classix cannot interpret whatever comes after the IMAG command as a number, it will respond with ERR1 instead of the usual OK response. Status then returns to READY.

 

Command: FILT

Classix will respond with the last moved-to filter position:

FILTD 12

 

Command: FILT %d (valid range 0 – 105)

Classix will respond OK and move to the requested filter position. If queried (or given another command) during this move, it will respond with BUSY FILT. Once done its status will return to READY, and the filter position can be confirmed using the FILT command with no parameters.

If the user cancels the filter move (which should only happen in an emergency, since it leaves the filter wheel in an unsuitable position for acquiring images), status will become ERR5 – similar to the ERR4 state above, Classix will respond with ERR5 next time it is queried or a command given, and then return its status to READY. The last filter position will be flagged as 105, a dummy position used to indicate an error.

If Classix cannot interpret whatever comes after the FILT command as a number, or if the number is out of range (<0 or >105), it will respond with ERR2 instead of OK. Status then returns to READY.

 

Command: SAVE E %d %f %f %f

The first letter after save can be E (energy scan) or F (filter scan); first number is the DLS scan number, which is appended to whatever filename was chosen by the user during scan setup; the next three numbers are start position, stop position, and step size for the scan.

This triggers Classix to save a set of scan files to identify the previously acquired images (images are saved with our own scan number as well as their point number, the scan files contain our scan number as well so this is used to associate a given set of images with a given set of scan files), and then increment our scan number and reset the point number used to number each image in a scan. As well as our normal scan files, I’m also saving a list of all IMAG %d, FILT %d, SAVE and unrecognised commands received since the last save, just in case of problems.

Since saving should be quite fast, Classix does not immediately respond with OK, instead it waits until the save is complete and then responds SAVED. If the save parameters were not recognized (either the numbers can’t be interpreted or something other than E or F was specified), it responds with ERR3 (after which status returns to READY).

 

Command: QUIT

I put this in as an afterthought, although we’ve not discussed it. The QUIT command will cause Classix to respond OK, then close the connection and return to its normal mail screen. This will abort any image acquisition or filter moves, and any data since the last save will be lost. There is a button on the Classix scan screen that will also do this (once the beamline computer has closed the connection and we want to return Classix to “normal” use, for example), so this command is not vital, it is just something I felt might be useful.

 

If a command received while status is READY is not understood, Classix will respond with ERR0 and status will remain READY. If Classix is already busy with image accumulation or moving filter, it will return the relevant BUSY response rather than an error.

 

Let me know if all the above sounds ok to you, or if you anticipate any problems. Also, when do you suggest we arrange to test my end of the software with your end? As I understand it, the Classix PC and the rest of our equipment should be delivered to DLS on 6th Jan – obviously your IT guys need to check over our PC before it is connected to the network, so when would be a good time after this for us to get together and check that everything works as it should? Or is this something that Nigel needs to arrange with Sarnjeet?

 

Thanks!

 

Brian Towlson

 

 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From: Ren, X (Eric) [mailto:xiaoxu.ren@diamond.ac.uk] 
Sent: 26 November 2008 11:06
To: brian.towlson-2@manchester.ac.uk
Subject: RE: Software for January beamtime

 

Hi Brian,

 

How's your software progress? I hope it's not very difficult to play with LabView on socket and your software. I had a chat with Sarnjeet recently and he mentioned again that all user data should be stored on the beamline storage. Please discuss this with I06 beamline scientists before your experiment on next January.

 

Regards,

 

Eric

--------------------------------------------
Dr Xiaoxu Ren (Eric)
Data Acquisition Scientist
Diamond Light Source Ltd.
Diamond House
Harwell Science and Innovation Campus
Didcot, Oxfordshire, OX11 0DE
United Kingdom
Email: X.Ren@diamond.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1235 778447



 
